# Crypto
## A nano library in C++ made for quick encryption and decryption

This library illustrates symmetric key encryption and decryption in its barebones. For usage, include crypto.h and use following functions. All functions are extension of std namespace.

Contains 2 classes:

- std::Crypto <br/>
  public: <br/>
  - long int * generateKeys() <br/>
  Important function. Returns pointer to array of dtype long int. Has 3 values : Nonce, Encoder and Decoder in that order. <br/>
  - long int * inputKeys()  <br/>
    Utility function. Returns pointer to array of dtype long int. Inputs the 3 values from console.  Has 3 values : Nonce, Encoder and Decoder in that order. <br/>
  - void encode_str(char input[81],unsigned long long int nonce, unsigned long   long int enc,int target[81]) <br/>
  Encodes a string which is then stored in target array. <br/>
  Args:-<br/>
    - input[81]: character array of string to be encrypted<br/>
    - nonce: nonce from generateKeys()<br/>
    - enc: Encoder form generateKeys()<br/>
    - target[81]: Int array that stores encrypted characters   <br/>

  - void decode_str(int crypt[81],long int nonce,long int dec,char target[81])<br/>
  Decodes a string which is then stored in target array.<br/>
  Args:- <br/>
    - crypt[81]: character array of string to be decrypted <br/>
    - nonce: nonce from generateKeys() <br/>
    - dec: Decoder form generateKeys() <br/>
    - target[81]: Int array that stores decrypted characters <br/>
    
- std::CryptoFileHandler<br/>
  public:<br/>
  - void encryptToFile(char message[81],string location,long int * keys)<br/>
  Encrypts message and stores to a \*.txt file<br/>
  Args:- <br/>
    - message[81] : Message array to encode <br/>
    - location: path to location to store file <br/>
    - keys: keys array from generateKeys() <br/>

  - void decryptToArray(string location,char target[81],long int * keys) <br/>
  Decrypts a file generated by this script and stores decrypted characters in an array. <br/>
  Args:-
    - location: path to location to store file <br/>
    - keys: keys array from generateKeys() <br/>
    - target[81]: Int array that stores decrypted characters<br/>
 
 <br/>
 <br/>
 
 This repo is based on the following article by <a href="https://github.com/bslatkin">Brett Slatkin's</a> blog <a href="https://www.onebigfluke.com/2013/11/public-key-crypto-math-explained.html">Simplest explanation of the math behind Public Key Cryptography</a>
